Alice: Hi.
Bob: Hello. Hello.
Alice: How are you doing?
Bob: Uh, doing well, thanks. What about you?
Alice: Surviving this Friday. Just about.
Bob: That sounds familiar.
Alice: Thanks for making time today. I know your schedule is packed. I thought it would be useful to spend a few minutes going through the new internal tools project and getting a better sense of the technical setup before we decide what to test first.
Bob: Yeah, absolutely. Happy to. Where do you want to start?
Alice: Maybe with a broad overview. What does the environment look like today?
Bob: Sure. So in general, the application is hosted in the cloud. We’ve got a front-end service, a few backend services, and a database layer. Most of the workloads run in containers, and we’ve separated things into development, staging, and production.
Alice: Okay.
Bob: We also have object storage for assets and backups, and then a queue for asynchronous jobs.
Alice: That makes sense. And roughly how big is the environment at the moment?
Bob: It depends how you count it, but if you’re thinking infrastructure, it’s a little over a hundred hosts across the environments. Production is the majority of that.
Alice: Got it. And from the application side, are we talking a handful of services or quite a few?
Bob: More than a handful. There are probably a few dozen services if you count everything separately, although some of them are much smaller than others.
Alice: Okay, that helps.
Bob: And in the container platform itself, we’ve usually got a few hundred running workloads at any given time.
Alice: Right. So definitely enough moving parts that visibility matters.
Bob: Exactly.
Alice: What about databases?
Bob: Mostly relational. A primary cluster for the transactional side, plus a read replica setup for reporting. Then we’ve got a small cache layer as well.
Alice: And logs, are you generating a lot?
Bob: Fairly high volume. On busy days it spikes a lot, especially when background jobs are running. We keep the recent logs easy to search, and older ones get archived.
Alice: That sounds sensible. Do you usually need fast access to older logs or only occasionally?
Bob: Mostly during incidents or when somebody is digging into a weird behaviour pattern from earlier in the week.
Alice: Okay. So not all of it needs to be hot all the time.
Bob: Right. That would get expensive quickly.
Alice: Fair point.
Bob: Metrics are more important day to day. CPU, memory, queue depth, request latency, error rates, that sort of thing.
Alice: And tracing?
Bob: Partial at the moment. Some services are instrumented well, others not so much. It’s one of those things we want to improve without slowing everybody down.
Alice: Understood. What about the user-facing side? Is there much of a frontend to monitor?
Bob: Some, but the bigger complexity is in the APIs and the worker processes behind them.
Alice: Okay, so we’d probably focus on backend health first.
Bob: That would be my recommendation.
Alice: Makes sense. And for testing, would you want to start with a limited proof of concept?
Bob: Yes, definitely. Small scope first. I’d rather prove value with a few services and then expand than try to boil the ocean on day one.
Alice: I agree with that.
Bob: We can choose one critical workflow, one supporting service, and maybe one queue consumer. That should be enough to show whether the approach works.
Alice: Perfect. That gives us a concrete next step.
Bob: Great.
Alice: Thanks, Bob. That was really helpful.
Bob: No problem at all.